Update synchronize-assets.md content (#298)
akeneo/pim-api-docs: content/guides/dam-connection/synchronize-assets.md

# Dive into the DAM-PIM synchronization

Alright, let's code now! In this section, you'll find everything you need to code your connector.

::: warning
Did you carefully read the previous sections? If not, you're missing some crucial steps and chances are you won't understand what's coming next. So, here you go: [here](introduction.html), [here](glossary.html), [here](pre-requisites.html) and [here](technical-stack.html).  
We promise it's worth the read. :wink:
:::

> As a reminder, the connector is the piece of software that is between the DAM and the PIM and that's in charge of the synchronization of the DAM assets within the PIM, as illustrated in this diagram.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As a reminder, the connector is the piece of software that is between the DAM and the PIM and that's in charge of the synchronization of the DAM assets with the PIM, as illustrated in this diagram.
```

![Macro overview of the DAM connection](../../img/guides/dam-connection-macro.svg)

To be crystal clear, the goal of the connector is to collect assets from the DAM and send them to the PIM. Easy peasy, right?  

Well then! Let's zoom in on what's inside that connector.  
Below is the general diagram of what your connector will actually do under the hood.

![General workflow](../../img/guides/dam_pim-general-workflow.svg)

It can be summed up in 3 steps:
- First, collect your DAM assets,
- Then, turn them into PIM assets,

> - To finish, create these PIM assets in your PIM.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- To finish, create those PIM assets in your PIM.
```

Tada! :tada:

## Collect assets from the DAM

The first step of the synchronization is to collect the available assets from the DAM.

Depending on your DAM capabilities, there are multiple ways to do it (API calls, message queue, ...).

See the [Define your technical stack](technical-stack.html) part of this documentation to have an idea of the different possibilities and their main constraints.

> To collect these assets, first you'll need to fetch the codes of the PIM asset families that you defined earlier in the [PIM structuration](pre-requisites.html#in-the-pim) step. To do so, you can either:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To collect those assets, first, you'll need to fetch the codes of the PIM asset families that you defined earlier in the [PIM structuration](pre-requisites.html#in-the-pim) step. To do so, you can either:
```

- call the PIM API [asset family GET endpoint](/api-reference-asset-manager.html#get_asset_families),
- write directly the codes of your asset families in a configuration file, the way we did in our [skeleton](https://github.com/akeneo/dam-connector/blob/master/config/resources/dam-example/mapping.yaml).

> Thanks to the asset family codes, you'll now be able to only call from the DAM the assets that belong to these families. This is thanks to the settings you operated on the DAM side by [adding the asset family information on each of your assets](pre-requisites.html#which-asset-family-your-dam-product-assets-belong-to). It will avoid requesting the entire DAM data, which would be really useless and counterproductive. :wink:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Thanks to the asset family codes, now, you'll be able to ask the DAM only for the assets that belong to those families. This is thanks to the upstream work you operated on the DAM side by [adding the asset family information on each of your assets](pre-requisites.html#which-asset-family-your-dam-product-assets-belong-to). It will avoid requesting the entire DAM data, which would be really useless and counterproductive. :wink:
```

> Don't forget that, when collecting your DAM assets, you should also filter them to only request **product** assets, thanks to the identification of product assets you've done earlier [here](pre-requisites.html#which-dam-assets-are-products-related).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Don't forget that, when collecting your DAM assets, you should also filter them to only request the **product** assets, thanks to the identification of product assets you've done earlier [here](pre-requisites.html#which-dam-assets-are-products-related).
```

]
```

> After this transformation step, here is how the JSON of the corresponding PIM asset will look like:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After this transformation step, here is what the JSON of the corresponding PIM asset will look like:
```

:::

::: warning

> Don't forget to deal with errors, if the configuration file doesn't match the structure of the DAM or PIM asset.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Don't forget to handle any error that may appear, if the configuration file doesn't match the structure of the DAM or PIM asset.
```

:::

### Generate asset attribute values

> As of now, you know how to map properties and attributes. The next step is to generate your asset attribute values for your PIM assets.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You now know how to map properties and attributes. The next step is to generate your asset attribute values for your PIM assets.
```

1. Fetching the information for the `main_colors` PIM attribute will tell you that:
    - This attribute is a **multiple options** attribute. Therefore the `data` field of its asset attribute value expects an array filled with `main_colors` option codes.
    - This attribute is **not localizable**. So you should put `null` in the `locale` field.

> 1. Then you have to transform the DAM asset value, which is a comma-separated list of colors, into an array of color options for the PIM asset value. _Nota: Be sure to first create your color options in the PIM, if they don't already exist. See [here](#dealing-with-options), for more information._

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Then you have to transform the DAM asset value, which is a comma-separated list of colors, into an array of color options for the PIM asset value. _Nota: Be sure you first create your color options in the PIM, if they don't already exist. See [here](#dealing-with-options), for more information._
```

1. The `warning_mention` DAM Property is mapped to the `disclaimer` PIM attribute.
1. Fetching the information for the `disclaimer` PIM attribute will tell you that:
    - This attribute is a **text** attribute. So the `data` field of its asset attribute value expects a string.

>     - This attribute is **localizable**. So you need to know for which PIM locale this information was enriched. Here, in our example, we consider that the DAM does not handle localization and every text properties within the DAM are enriched in English. So we directly write this as is, in the connector: the corresponding locale for localizable attributes will be "en_US".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - This attribute is **localizable**. So you need to know for which PIM locale this information was enriched. Here, in our example, we consider that the DAM does not handle localization and every text property within the DAM is enriched in English. So we specify it, in the connector: the corresponding locale for localizable attributes will be "en_US".
```

![Push assets with options](../../img/guides/dam_pim-asset-push.svg)

> Again, don't hesitate to take a look at our [skeleton](https://github.com/akeneo/dam-connector/blob/master/src/Infrastructure/Pim/AttributeOptionsApi.php) to see it in action. :wink:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Again, don't hesitate to take a look at our [skeleton](https://github.com/akeneo/dam-connector/blob/master/src/Infrastructure/Pim/AttributeOptionsApi.php) to see it all in action. :wink:
```
